Roles, states, and properties,
these are the building blocks of ARIA.
So all of the attributes that are defined
in the ARIA specification are roles,
states, or properties, such as role
button or aria-hidden of true.
So roles are pretty straightforward in
that they are, what does the thing do?
Is it a button, is it a checkbox?
So as I mentioned, the button element
has an implicit role of button.
The role of button will bolt it on.
And in the accessibility tree's view,
that's seamless.
It's pretty well supported.
I mean,
I think you can do that pretty reliably.
But div role button is
not the whole picture.
So that's why we say use button first.
So why would you even use that?
It would be like, if for some reason,
you're building a custom component and
you can't use HTML.
I mean,
it'd better be a compelling reason.
But there's so many constraints that
we deal with in the real world, but
I'm sure it's come up.
I mean, it could be that you have
really annoying old styling that you
can't get rid of, or something.
That's some technical debt that I
think would be worth facing, but
sometimes we have constraints.
So, I can think of another example.
I worked on a big, it was actually
a desktop application that output widgets.
So it was outputting Web widgets
that you could embed, and
it exported divs for buttons.
And the fix in the actual
desktop software application to
output a button element was non-trivial.
I wasn't like, hey, I'm just gonna
go in and swap that element out.
No, it was old back-end code
to generate button elements.
So yeah, we definitely put an issue
in the backlog to do that work.
But in the meantime, are we just
gonna let button elements be divs?
No, I bolted on a button role, and
tab index, and a keyboard event, and
did the whole song and dance.
Well, we kinda did both things.
So that might be the solution if for
some reason, you're like,
we can't use buttons right now.
We are doing the work to upgrade
our infrastructure so that we can.
But in the meantime, maybe you bolt on
a button role and all of the other parts.
So when you're checking support for
an ARIA role, state, or property, or
you're wanting to use them,
you should check support.
So for something like aria-autocomplete or
aria-drag where you're like,
isn't there an ARIA attribute for
x or y that I saw on the ARIA spec or
I remembered at one time?
It's good to do some research on it.
So the first site I would
recommend is called
Accessibility Support or a11ysupport.io.
This is a community effort
to basically crowdsource.
It's like a CanIUse.com for
ARIA attributes.
So I think the example I
had was aria-autocomplete.
Yikes, that's a no-go.
Is it supported?
Across the board, it's either none or
some partial support.
So I'd say sorry, aria-autocomplete
attribute, that's just not gonna happen.
What would be another one?
I guess aria-drag,
I don't think that's a thing.
Aria-dropeffect, yeah, that one's not
documented and probably not supported.
I'm surprised about aria-hidden.
That's actually pretty well supported,
but there's no data on it.
So that's still kind of interesting.
Let's see, what would be another one?
Aria-label, all green, all good,
supported, pretty reliable.
You have to use aria-label
on the right role.
You can't put it onto a div,
but that's not a support issue.
That's just a technical requirement.
And it's interesting they put screen
reader support, voice control support,
aria-labelledby, so
this is some really helpful data.
Another one I've used this for
is aria-expanded or aria-haspopup, so
some of these things that we put on
custom, little drop-downs and things.
Support's pretty good, but
we can go in and read more.
What are the things that it's not passing?
Simple trues or false seem pretty good,
aside from narrator Orca,
which is Linux, or Android TalkBack.
I could go test in some of those,
if I was really concerned.
So talking about how to prioritize, this
is one direction I could go in to say, all
right, I wanna use this ARIA attribute to
communicate the state of this component.
I looked it up on
accessibilities port I/O and
it looked green across the board,
except for Narrator and Edge.
I'm gonna go test over there and
see what happens.
So that's pretty cool.
I mean, you should test it elsewhere too.
But this is kind of helpful
data to digest and apply.
So a11ysupport.io, and
they are community driven, so
I'm sure they would love contributions.
And then testing it in screen readers,
cuz that's where the impact is really
gonna be felt, is in assistive technology.
And that's also why it gets forgotten or
screwed up, is that I think developers,
it's so easy to add ARIA, but
then the testing step gets missed.
So we wanna make sure we're testing it,
or just don't include it at all.
I learned that kind of
early on in my career,
that I could make it a lot
worse without realizing it.
So yeah, ARIA, you should just kind
of accept or remember that it should
come with a bit of caution, [LAUGH] or
some testing time on your calendar.
And then you can read up on mailing
lists like the ARIA GitHub.
The NVDA GitHub is really great.
That's where they developed
the Windows screen reader, NVDA.
It's open source.
It is a treasure trove of information
over there, especially for Windows issues
that if you're primarily a Mac developer
and you start to test on Windows,
you can dispel some misconceptions
just by reading the NVDA GitHub.
Cuz somebody's probably had
the same question as you.
And you can go and read,
and it is very helpful.
And then the WebAIM email discussion list,
they have decades,
I wanna say,
I don't know how many years of archives.
But they have email archives from
a very long time ago that have
discussions from people who work on
browsers, work on screen readers.
The accessibility community includes
people who developed all of these
specs and all of these tools.
It's really cool that there's
answers from people that are so
informed and instrumental.
So you can use ARIA in your CSS selectors.
It's a pretty cool technique to do,
I guess,
depending on how your
styling is generated.
But like any attribute selector,
you can match your CSS to certain ARIA.
So for example,
if I have a custom role of checkbox,
sure, I could add a class,
or an ID or something.
I could also just match it
based on whether it has a role.
I've done this when I need to
differentiate certain inputs from
other inputs.
I'll end up using these
attribute selectors.
But the ARIA ones also, I could
style a disabled checkbox that way.
Increasingly, a lot of codebases
are using things like Tailwind, so
you might not have these
types of selectors.
But Tailwind does a pretty good job of
incorporating accessibility into what
they're doing.
Love it or hate it,
they are at least making it possible for
us to create similar experiences.
I didn't ever think I would be
a Tailwind person, by the way,
just a little side note.
But it's been kind of awesome.
It does get in my way, though.
[LAUGH] Okay, so another example could
be styling off of aria-expanded.
That's another one of those states.
If it's true or false,
you can change how it's styled.
Question?
>> What about hidden anchor elements for
screen readers like skip to main
content and skip navigation?
>> Yes, so
the question was about skip links.
We are gonna talk about skip
links in the next section.
So with those,
we actually don't want them to be hidden.
We wanna make them usable by
sighted keyboard users, too.
So I think there used to be an approach
to skip links where we would put
visually hidden on them for some reason.
And let's just get that out of there,
no more of that.
I don't know where that came from.
But skip links are super useful
when you can see the screen and
you wanna skip around,
like if you can't use a mouse.
We actually would benefit from
some skip links on these slides.
So yeah, we wanna make them visible, but
we will talk about skip
links a little bit later on.
All right, so accessible names and
descriptions,
ARIA brings with it a pretty
foundational concept here.
And we've already seen some of it.
Accessible names apply to links, buttons,
form controls, images,
tables, field sets, legends.
Anything that has what we call a label,
quote-unquote,
has a technical term of accessible name.
So if you hear that, that's what that is.
It's basically the label for something.
And only certain elements can be labeled.
You can't put aria-label on a div,
unless it has a certain role on it.
But that's what that concept is.
There's also the concept of
an accessible description,
that if something has a label and a title,
the title will be read kind of after
the initial text, after a bit of a delay.
And that's what's called
an accessible description.
Title will do it,
aria-describedby will do it.
They're configurable on
the screen reader though, so
you don't wanna count on
descriptions always being there.
So aria-label, aria-labelledby,
aria-describedby, you can label things.
And we've seen some of this already, but
I can bolt on a label pretty easily.
The risk with aria-label sometimes,
and I saw this in a codebase recently,
is people set it and then they forget it,
and it's not relevant text anymore.
So I have a slight preference for
aria-labelledby,
cuz it will just always stay
up to date with whatever.
If this All About Wombats heading
is visible and it gets out of date,
that'll probably get fixed.
But then the accessibility
connection is still there.
It's just gonna programmatically point to
that, so I think that's pretty awesome.
And then aria-describedby, well,
it's very similar to labelledby.
It just creates that
description instead of a name.
So as we saw in the Chrome DevTools,
that will show us which thing wins.
So when we have multiple,
like this tiny screenshot has aria-label,
it has title, placeholder,
maybe more than one title.
I'm not really sure what's
happening there, but
we can see the description is helper text.
The name is text,
on this very generic example.
But that tool is excellent for
helping you see which thing wins,
because something has to win.
And in the Enterprise Workshop also,
we are going to dive way
deeper into this topic.
It gets pretty diggy.